Grocery shopping for me is far more painful than it needs to be. While a normal person might pick the first carton of berries they see and place it in their cart, I spend minutes at each item of produce agonizing over the merits of organic for a given fruit. When it comes to buying oatmeal, I stubbornly insist on buying certain brands citing the company’s treatment of their workers as a reason for my financial support. But why do I spend so much more time (and money) making these choices? The decisions I make in my local supermarket, no matter how trivial, confirm to myself that I am a conscious and responsible shopper and upholding my values even in this menial definition. Since consumerism and the products we buy often come with underlying associations—whether that be politcal, economical, or otherwise—consumer culture and the buying decisions we make not only reaffirm our identities and values, but can also shape our sense of self.
Paying money for a product has become an extension of paying to support a political cause given the increasingly politicized and complicated nature of any given item. Leading up to the release of a Harry Potter video game, trans-activists urged consumers to not buy the game given the creator of Harry Potter expressing transphobic views. An individual's choice on whether or not to play the game was no longer just indicative of their interest, but also often reflected on their political view; therefore, their consumption choice was an outlet to display to others, as well as reaffirm to themselves, their position on a political issue. While some individuals who claimed to support trans people purchased the game, they were more likely to do so privately or even pirate the game in order to absolve himself of intrapersonal political conflict by consumption without monetary support. Likewise, conservative’s Budweiser boycott following the company’s choice to use a queer mascot serves as another example of this concept; given how companies have evolved as symbols of certain values through their public actions, in order to avoid consumption that conflicted with personal political values, individuals act in accordance with their political opinions because refusing to support a company antithetical to their beliefs, hence, solidifying their sense of political identity.
In addition to being a means of expressing political views, consumer culture, and the identities built around it can allow individuals to cultivate a sense of self and belonging through their consuming habits. For many queer individuals, certain articles of clothing such as cuffed jeans and Doc Martens, are ascribed to their queer identity and therefore are a form of not only identity affirmation, but a way of self discovery. While undoubtedly, individuals of a certain community are not obligated to all follow the same consumption habits, similar preferences can create a sense of belonging in a given identity. In recent years, certain types of “girl” and the related aesthetic and lifestyle have oscillated in popularity; all of these trends create a clear, named, sense of self based on how an individual consumes, whether that be pilates classes or neutral colored athleisure and are often associated with healthier, more affluent women. Not only that, but people’s choices can be influenced by these trends as their spending  changes in order to fit into a certain desirable identity. While someone might not be a “black coffee person,” they might choose to start drinking it in hopes of becoming a stereotypical image of a “black coffee drinker,” assuming that said stereotype has positive connotations. Not only are our consumption patterns influenced by our identities, but our identities can be shaped by our consumption habits.