How many times have you gone to the supermarket and had an overabundance of choice: too many types of pizza, ice cream, bread…...  why is it necessary? A lack of choice on more trivial matters can allow one to make more efficient and timely decisions, but an abundance of choices is essential when making decisions that lead to serious consequences and change.
Having a lack of choice can expose someone to new perspectives and save time from deliberating on unimportant matters. Back to the supermarket analogy, we simply don't need that much choice when it comes to picking grocery store items. (JIF or Skippy, they are practically the same thing!) Trader Joe's has mastered the art of eliminating choice and replacing it with a minimalist design. They don't offer multiple types of peanut butter, just the hand-picked Trader Joe's brand peanut butter. And consumers love Trader Joe's, cementing itself as one of the most popular modern grocery stores. Trader Joe's demonstrates how a lack of choice can be beneficial in matters that don't have serious consequences. Having just a few options can also expose people to ideas and decisions that they previously never would have considered. On an extensive restaurant menu, it can often be difficult to choose your meal when there are so many options. If you're like me, you may find yourself so overwhelmed by choice just sticking to what you know... or ordering the same things your friends get. Some fine-dining restaurants have eliminated this choice and simply provide their consumers with one meal course, the best that they offer; in doing so, people can be exposed to new foods that they otherwise never would have tried but actually really enjoy, and their palette and overall experience is enhanced as a result. Therefore, eliminating choice can also allow one to experience new perspectives and ideas that they otherwise would've never ventured towards.
However, eliminating choice can be extremely harmful when deciding matters that have serious consequences, because it often doesn't provide the nuance in decision-making that the circumstance requires. In Texas, strict pro-life laws prevent women from the choice of an abortion. Kate Cox is a pregnant woman living in Texas, who asked for a restraining order from the state after she found out that her baby had an abnormality and would almost certainly die after birth, not to mention the pregnancy would put her at risk of future infertility. Still, the state ruled that she could not have an abortion in this extreme case, forcing her to flee the state to get an abortion elsewhere. Regardless of your political views, completely eliminating a woman's choice to an abortion does not account for unique cases where it becomes a necessity, like in the case of Kate Cox. Her case demonstrates how a lack of choice can be extremely harmful, because it does not allow one to make decisions specific to the circumstance required. Brutal regimes and dictatorships also illustrate how lacking choice can prove to be extremely detrimental. Look at Mao Zedong's communist dictatorship in the Cultural Revolution in China, in which he enumerated Mao Zedong thought into law and eliminated the choice of party members to disagree with his views. Mao's rule led to hundreds of thousands of deaths of political dissidents through purges. It was ultimately due to this lack of choice that allowed Mao's dictatorship to remain in power and force such a brutal rule. Thus, we must allow for choice in political decisions to hear a diversity of thought and come to more sound and reasonable conclusions.
With the spread of technology, more choice than ever has been available at the touch of a button. Before you make your decision (where to order DoorDash, which source to get your news from), ask yourself, am I educated to make this choice? And remember that sometimes removing your choice altogether can lead to a whole new journey and discovery of yourself altogether.
