Growing up, we’ve all seen the classical Disney movie or heard about the same strong women in society. Who didn’t watch Snow White, Cinderella, or hear about Marie Curie at some point in their life? While this may seem like progress in comparison to the past, where no women were acknowledged, Jason Porath argues that this short list of women is not enough. In his essay, “Rejected Princesses,” Porath looks to both introduce his book and make a social commentary on what women we study. He structures his essay with a series of rhetorical questions, both leading us through his logic and introducing us to a more critical frame of mind when considering how society teaches us about women. Furthermore, he compares what we learn about men to what we learn about women to reveal our shortcomings in education and writes in a lighthearted tone, introducing women in a way we consider comical and absurd to reveal our own personal biases. 
        Throughout his essay, Porath leads us through a series of rhetorical questions both to create a logical sequence to his work and introduce us to a more critical frame of mind. While we might consider women’s treatment today to be sufficient, we have to continue and scrutinize how we portray women— there’s always room for improvement. His first series of questions, “but what of the untold stories? The uncompromised ones? The uncomfortable ones?” serve to introduce us to the purpose of his essay. He sets us up to start hearing the stories of women that may seem untraditional or even inappropriate. Additionally, he sets us up in a critical frame of mind for the rest of his argument. We begin to wonder, what about them? Whereas he initially starts with a list of women that we feel comfortable with and proud of, we begin to see them in a different light, one where our perception of women has been tailored and censored. Porath continues to take us through this logical series of questions to set up both his reasoning for writing this book and how it began, even ending on “Why not?” This serves to sum up the entire purpose of his essay. Why don’t we look at women who are considered rebellious, even dangerous? He leaves us with a more critical frame of mind than the one we began with. Instead of simply being happy with the progress we made, or complacent, he has us questioning what we’ve been taught and shown, priming us to start looking for and portraying more female heroes. 
        He additionally compares what we’ve learned about women to what we’ve learned about men, specifically emphasizing the absurdity of the differences in what we’ve been taught in order to elucidate the problematic, overly “tame” image of women in society. We can see a stark difference from traditional figures, such as “Amelia Earhart, Marie Curie, Rosa Parks,” and people like Genghis Khan. Porath draws attention by comparing more war-like, macho images to more “tame ones” bringing our attention to the disparity. Porath continuously uses the comparison between the short list of women and the long list of men to reveal how few women we actually know about in comparison to how many men. His syntax when talking about the list of women we learn about is choppy: “It’s safe. It’s censored. It’s short. It’s the list of amazing women in history.” It mirrors exactly how we learn about women through creating a series of awkward stops and short phrases. Similar to the list, these sentences feel almost incomplete (the first three being only two words each) and abbreviated. His last sentence seems to overly generalize as well, drawing the connection that the list of amazing women in history is brief. That’s it. It not only mirrors our list of amazing women, but also contrasts against the previous, longer sentence, in order to draw our attention to the brevity. 
Porath also artfully references the absurd throughout his essay, both with men and women, in order to make us more receptive through comedy and also realize our own biases. As he references “tank-driving Soviet Mariya Oktyabryskaya,” it seems almost absurd and funny to us. It makes Porath more entertaining, providing further motivation to consider his future work. We’re more receptive to hard messages such as these when we find humor in them. Not only does this help market his project, but it brings attention to our own biases. While it may be funny at first, we’re led to question why we find this comical whereas we see men like Genghis Khan as stoic warriors. Porath uses our own gut reaction to reveal our own faults in how we perceive women. Furthermore, he references “Zeus impregnating women while in the shape of various animals,” to draw a similar instantaneous reaction to his absurdity.  The image seems so absurd and outrageous, that he leads us to even question what portrayals of men we consider appropriate. Porath reveals this large gap between the portrayal of women and the absolutely absurd portrayal of what men we consider to be “ok,” dispelling the previous argument that we censor women because they’re “not suitable” for kids.